Code appendix (#478)
worldbank/dime-data-handbook: auxiliary/stata-guide.tex

people working in quantitative development research must be proficient collaborative programmers,
and that includes more than being able to compute the correct numbers.

This appendix begins with a section on some general and language agnostic
principles on how to write ``good'' code. 
Good code is code that both generates the correct result \textit{and} 

> is easily read by other professionals in our field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is easily read by other professionals.
```

The second section in this appendix contains instructions
on how to access and use the code examples shared in this book.
The last section contains the DIME Analytics Stata Style Guide.
Widely accepted and used style guides are common in most programming languages,
and we think that using such a style guide greatly improves the quality
of research projects coded in Stata.
We hope that this guide can help increase the emphasis
given to using, improving, sharing, and standardizing code style among the Stata community.
We believe these resources can help anyone write more understandable code,
and how you, like an architect,
can draw a blueprint that can be understood and used by everyone in your trade.

\end{fullwidth}

%------------------------------------------------

> \section{Writing code that is both correct and good}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\section{Writing good code}
```

It's odd to say both here in the title and then the first line says "good code is correct" I think

You should think of code in terms of three major elements:
\textbf{structure}, \textbf{syntax}, and \textbf{style}.
We always tell people to ``code as if a stranger would read it''

> (from tomorrow, that stranger is most likely the future you!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(and, tomorrow, we are strangers even to our past selves).
```

(or much less) accessible to someone who is reading it for the first time
and needs to understand it quickly and correctly.

> Whether you are new to the programming language you are suing,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether you are new to the programming language you are using,
```

> (Stata, R, Python etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Stata, R, Python, or one of the many others)
```

or have used it for decades,
you will always run into commands that

> you have not seen before or whose function you do not remember.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you have not seen before or whose functionality you do not remember.
```

Every time that happens,
you should always look up the help file for that command.
We often encounter the conception that help files are only for beginners.

> We could not disagree with that conception more,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We could not disagree with that conception more.
```

> as the only way to get better at the programming language you use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only way to get better at the programming language you use
```

is to constantly read help files.

> (Whether you are new or not, you should frequently revisit the most common commands --

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether you are new or not, you should frequently revisit the most common commands --
```

> often you will learn they can do something you never realized.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
often you will learn they can do something you never realized.
```

We cannot emphasize enough how important it is
that you get into the habit of reading help files.
Most of us have a help file window open at all times.

> 

Reviewer: This section ends a bit abruptly, needs some sort of conclusion. I will take a stab at it.

\section{Using the code examples in this book}

> 

Reviewer: A little intro needed here as well.

We have ensured that each code block runs independently,
is well-formatted, 
and uses built-in commands as much as possible.
We hope that these snippets will provide a foundation for your code style.
Providing some standardization to Stata code style is also a goal of our team.

> Our code examples are commented generously (as you should),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We try to comment code examples generously (as you should),
```

> but you should reference Stata help-files by writing \texttt{help [command]}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and you should reference Stata help files by writing \texttt{help [command]}
```

"Help files" is Stata style, never "helpfiles" or "help-files"

whenever you do not understand the command that is being used.
For example, if you are not familiar with \texttt{isid},
 then write \texttt{help isid},
and the help file for the command \texttt{isid} will open.
You should do this even if you know \texttt{isid} 
but has not read the help file for that command in a while,

> as there is always something new to learn.

Reviewer: This section is a bit redundant with the previous one.

In the book, code examples are presented like the following:

\codeexample{code.do}{./code/code.do}

You can access the raw code used in examples in this book in several ways.

> We use GitHub to version control all content of this book,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use GitHub to version control all the content of this book,
```

including the code examples.

> To see the code examples on GitHub, go to: \url{https://github.com/worldbank/d4di/tree/master/code}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see the code examples on GitHub, go to: \url{https://github.com/worldbank/dime-data-handbook/tree/master/code}.
```

> If you are familiar with GitHub you can fork the repository and clone your fork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[Suggest to remove line]

We only use Stata's built-in datasets in our code examples,
so you do not need to download any data.
If you have Stata installed on your computer, 
then you will already have the data files used in the code.

A less technical way to access the code is to click the individual file in the URL above, then click
the button that says \textbf{Raw}. You will then get to a page that looks like the one at:

> \url{https://raw.githubusercontent.com/worldbank/d4di/master/code/code.do}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\url{https://raw.githubusercontent.com/worldbank/dime-data-handbook/master/code/code.do}.
```

There, you can copy the code from your browser window to your do-file editor with the formatting intact.

> This method is only practical for a single file at the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is only practical for a single file at a time.
```

If you want to download all code used in this book, you can do that at:

> \url{https://github.com/worldbank/d4di/archive/master.zip}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\url{https://github.com/worldbank/dime-data-handbook/archive/master.zip}. 
```

That link downloads a \texttt{.zip} file 
with all the content used in writing this book, 
including the \LaTeX{} code used for the book itself. 
After extracting the .zip-file you will find all the code in a folder called \texttt{/code/}.

> While we try to refer to built-in commands as much as possible in this book,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we use built-in commands as much as possible in this book,
```

> we point to user-written functions when they provide important tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we point to user-written commands when they provide important new functionality.
```

In particular, we point to two suites of Stata commands developed by DIME Analytics,
\texttt{ietoolkit}\sidenote{\url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/ietoolkit}} and
\texttt{iefieldkit},\sidenote{\url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/iefieldkit}}
which standardize our core data collection, management, and analysis workflows.

> In our code examples use \texttt{randtreat} or \texttt{ieboilstart}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Around that length, start a new line using \texttt{///}.
Using \texttt{///} breaks the line in the code editor,
while telling Stata that the same line of code continues on the next line.

> Recent version of the Stata do-file editor --

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recent versions of the Stata do-file editor --
```

and many other code editors --

> automatically wraps code lines that are too long,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automatically wrap code lines that are too long,
```
